Every month, this boring website gets 11
million visitors and makes about half a
million dollars by doing one simple
thing, unscrambling words. And in this
video, I'm going to show you exactly how
I cloned it without writing a single
line of code in about 15 minutes. I'll
even walk you through how to monetize it
with Google Ads. Now, you might think
you need to be a big brand, sell
products, post loads of articles, or
have a huge social media following to
make this kind of money, but this site
does none of that. It just does one of
the most basic things I've ever seen on
the internet. You type in random
letters, it spits out words. That's
literally it. And here's the crazy part.
There are thousands of boring utility
sites like this. Quietly making
thousands every single month. This sleep
calculator, $9,000 per month. This what
is my IP address tool up to $111,000
per month. And the calculator.net
$825,000
per month. They're all running the same
simple model. And now with AI, it's
never been more accessible to someone
like you or me. Now, you might be
wondering, "Okay, Jonathan, I get that
AI makes it easy to build the site, but
how do you actually get Google to
recommend it? That's the part most
videos completely skip over." Well,
that's exactly what I'm going to cover.
I'll show you a foolproof method for
choosing the right utility site to
build, one that can actually rank on
Google, because your success is my
success. Welcome back. And if you want
to see more videos where we explore what
one person can build and monetize with
AI, make sure to subscribe, like, and
comment below what you'd like to see
next. And with that said, let's talk
about how this site actually makes
money. And honestly, once you see the
numbers, it's going to change the way
you think about the internet.
Astonishing.
>> If you install a free Chrome extension
called Similar Web, you will see that
word unscrambler.me gets between 10 and
11 million visitors a month. And that's
because people are searching terms like
unscramble words and word unscrambler
millions of times a month. Now, here's
where it gets interesting. Each visitor
views about five pages on average, which
gives us roughly 55 million page views a
month. Now, you might be wondering, what
does that actually mean in dollars? The
site's business model is Google display
ads, like this ad we see here. And
here's something most people get
completely wrong. You might think people
need to actually click the ads for the
site to make money, but that's not the
case. The site gets paid simply for
showing the ad. No clicks needed. So,
how do we figure out exactly how much
it's earning? The metric that matters is
called RPM. Basically, how much you earn
per thousand page views. Now, pay
attention here because this is where it
gets really interesting. For a site like
this that has strong engagement and a
lot of traffic coming from tier one
countries like the United States, that's
realistically somewhere between $3 and
$12. If we run the numbers at $9 RPM,
that's roughly half a million a month
from a site that unscramles words. Just
so this is crystal clear, here's the
math. The site gets about 55 million
page views a month. RPM means earnings
per 1,000 page views. So, if we assume a
$9 RPM, we divide 55 million by 1,000 to
get $55,000, then multiply by 9. That
gives us roughly $495,000
per month. If the real RPM is lower, it
earns less. If it's higher, it earns
more. And in a moment, I'll show you
exactly why sites like this are such a
powerful model. So, now you know how the
money works, but here's what makes these
utility sites genuinely genius.
>> Genius. They solve one specific problem
instantly. Someone searches mortgage
calculator, gets their answer in
seconds, and leaves happy. And if
they're happy, Google's happy and will
keep sending you more traffic. And the
demand, it's huge and evergreen. People
needed a budget calculator 10 years ago.
They need one today. They'll need one in
2030. Something you build this week
could still be earning years from now.
Now, compare that to content businesses.
With a blog or YouTube channel, you're
constantly creating. It never stops.
With a utility site, you build it once
and it runs indefinitely. Now, you might
be wondering if this is so good. Why
isn't everyone doing it? Well, up until
recently, you had two options. Spend
months or even years learning to code or
hire a developer for a few thousand per
tool. Either way, it was out of reach
for most people. But that's exactly
what's changed. And in a moment, I'm
going to show you the exact process I
use to build one of these sites. No
coding, no developers, no experience
needed. Now, when I say anyone can build
a utility site like this without writing
any code, I genuinely mean that. I've
built multiple sites this way, and the
process is the same every time. You just
chat with AI in plain English, and it
builds it for you. The tool we're using
today is Hostinger Horizons, an
all-in-one platform that takes your idea
from concept to fully operational
website just by describing what you
want. Now, you might be wondering, is
there a catch? Like, does it actually
work? Or is it one of those tools that
sounds good but falls apart the moment
you try to do something real? Well,
stick around because you're about to see
me build a complete working utility site
from scratch in this video. But first,
let's get you set up. Go ahead and click
the link in the description. It'll take
you right to Hostinger Horizons. I'm
using the starter plan, and here's why
it makes sense. You can launch up to 25
websites, monetize them, sell digital or
physical products, and you get a free
domain for the first year for what we're
building. That's everything you need.
And right now, they're running a deal.
If you go with the 12 month option,
you'll get a big discount and you'll see
a spot for a coupon code that gets you
an additional 10% off on top of that.
Plus, they have a 30-day money back
guarantee. So, if you try it and it's
not for you, you just get your money
back. No stress. Once you're inside,
this is where it gets fun because from
here, you can literally create anything
you want just by describing it. And
that's exactly what we're about to do.
So, watch how I create step by step a
site just like wordcram.me using
hostinger horizons, just by chatting
with its AI instead of coding or hiring
a web developer. And I want you to pay
close attention here because what you're
about to see might genuinely surprise
you. Let's get this jam started. So,
inside Hostinger Horizons, everything
starts with a chat box. I'm just going
to describe in plain English what I want
Horizons to build for me. Here's the
prompt. I want to build a simple web app
that is a word unscrambler. The user
types in a group of letters and the word
unscrambler shows all the real English
words that can be made from those
letters and so on. Now we just hit enter
and Horizons gets to work. And watch
this. After a few minutes, it already
delivers us a working version. However,
it's designed the main function behind a
button click, which isn't ideal. We want
it visible immediately. And this is
where most people would get stuck. But
all we have to do is tell it what we
want fixed. We write the letter box to
put letters into should be available
immediately. And in under 2 minutes,
it's done. Look how it's already working
perfectly. After putting in these random
letters, it's found 12 words and grouped
them by word length. Now, at this point,
this is already publishable. But here's
where it gets interesting. There are a
couple of things I'd like to improve.
The unscramble button seems very far
away from where the letters are
inserted. And if we compare to the
successful site, the user doesn't have
to move their cursor so far to click it.
Besides that, the site is only using
black and green, which is pretty boring.
So, let's just ask Horizons to fix those
things. And watch how it follows our
instructions to the litter. Pun
intended. This is looking better. The
button feels more accessible, and the
site is now using various colors, and
it's still working exactly as intended.
Now, you might be wondering, is that it?
Are we done? Well, almost, but not
quite. Because if we look more closely
at what the most successful sites in
this space are doing, there's one thing
they all have that we're missing. If we
look more closely at the example site as
well as this other successful site, we
can see they include additional options,
which it turns out are essential for
many common use cases, particularly word
games like Scrabble or Wordle. Our web
app would be lacking without these. If
we had to figure out the code and logic
to build these options, it would be a
real headache. But all we have to do is
ask Horizons. I just specify what the
additional options should do. And again,
in a few minutes, that is done. Let's
try it out. We'll say the word has to
start with the letter E and contain five
letters, which gives us eagle. Working
perfectly. And just to make sure, let's
find all words that contain an X. And
there you have it. Fantastic. Just one
last tweak. I prefer the options to not
be visible immediately. And let's make
the button stand out more by changing
its color. Done. We'll just check it's
still working. And we are ready to
publish. Publishing could not be
simpler. We just go up here to the
publish button and click it. That's it.
We've literally got a live site now.
However, there is one thing you'll want
to change straight away, and that's your
domain name because this is what
determines whether Google can actually
find your site. Our site is currently on
a temporary domain, which is not good
for search optimization. What we want is
a domain name that matches what our site
does. So, click here to load the domain
search tool. Surprise, surprise. Word
unscramble.com is not available. So,
chatgpt gives me some alternative
suggestions to try. I like this one,
which is available with a.com, so I'll
take it. The domain is now connected.
And despite the fact that it says it
needs more time, let's just try loading
the site anyway in a new browser tab.
And there you go. It's already up and
running. Seven words, fully functional.
And check this out. We can load it on
the phone and it's perfectly adapted to
my device and fully functional.
Congratulations. You just built your
first utility site. And now comes the
part that actually turns it into a
business. I'm going to walk you through
setting up Google Display Ads on your
site step by step. And if you remember
the numbers from earlier, page views,
RPM, this is the step that makes all of
that real. The first step is to go to
adsense.google.com and click sign up.
Once you're signed in, write your site's
domain in this field. Then click start
using AdSense. Now, you might be
wondering, is this going to be
complicated? Because AdSense has a
reputation for being a bit of a
headache. But I promise you, with
Horizons, it's about as painless as it
gets. Now, we come to this screen
showing the next three steps. your
payment info, how ads will look on your
site, and connecting your site to
AdSense. Click payment info and fill it
out. Then click the explore button to
see how ads will look on your site. Here
you can preview the locations of AdSpots
and remove any you don't want. However,
this isn't working yet because we need
to grab some code and put it in our site
first. And this is the bit that would
normally trip people up. But watch how
simple this is. Click this red get code
button. Hit copy and just ask Hostinger
Horizons to insert the code for us. Then
publish changes. Now come back to
AdSense. Check the placements and click
this icon on any you want to remove.
Switch between mobile and desktop
previews. Click apply to site then save.
And now for the final step, connecting
the site. Click let's go. Check I've
placed the code and click verify. And
our site is verified. Just like that.
All that's left is to request a review
for compliance. Now, here's something I
want to be upfront about because most
videos on this topic just gloss over it.
You will need to do a bit more work on
the site before it gets accepted into
AdSense. If we look at our example site
and this other very similar one, also
with huge traffic, we see they have a
handful of related tools, some legal
pages, and a bit more content like an
in-depth explanation of what the site is
for. Now, I know what you're thinking.
That sounds like a lot. But here's the
thing. This is easily done with hosting
a horizons. The additional content and
legal pages can be done in a jify. And
for the other tools, you just repeat the
same process we already went through.
Right? So, you've now got a fully built
monetized utility site. But before we
move on, there's something important I
want to address. I know you're smart
enough to realize that having ads on
your site doesn't guarantee you'll get
income. The income is generated when you
have traffic, and traffic will only be
generated when Google includes your site
at the top of the search results. And
getting ranked on Google's first page is
a whole topic. No, a whole industry in
itself. So you might be wondering, is
there actually a simple way to approach
this or do you need to become an SEO
expert? Well, actually there are simple
strategies that can give you the best
possible chance of getting ranked fast,
which I will explain in a minute. Before
that, I just want to add that there is
nothing stopping you publishing multiple
simple tool sites or even multiple
similar tools on the same site. just as
our example word unscrambler site does.
That way you're not putting all your
eggs in one basket. And at the same
time, you're giving yourself the best
chance of earning as quickly as
possible. And this strategy leads to
compound earnings. Even if you're not
earning much with recently launched
sites, if you have multiple sites, the
earnings can start to increase quickly.
If you had four or five tools earning
$100 to $200 each, for example, you
could quickly get to $1,000 per month.
And as I've shown you, going from idea
to published site can be done in under
an hour and often even faster with
Hostinger Horizons. Heck, you could even
publish five on the same day. And
actually, before I show you the research
strategy, Horizons has one more feature
I want to show you that could earn you
passive income because the more sites
you build, the more this one could work
in your favor. And this is something I
really like about Horizons. And it's
something most people completely
overlook because every site you build
can become an additional income stream
all on its own, completely separate from
the ad revenue and Google and it
requires zero extra effort on your part.
It's called remixable templates. Here's
the idea. You build something with
Horizons, a landing page, a tool, a
small app, whatever. Then you publish it
as a template. Now, anyone can click
remix and instantly get their own copy
of it. They can edit it, change the
design, and turn it into their own
project. Now, you might be wondering,
what's in it for you? Well, if someone
remixes your template and then signs up
for Horizons, you earn a referral
commission on whatever plan they sign up
for, up to $150 per referral. And all
you have to do to activate it is to come
up here inside your Horizon's project
and click let others copy your website
and then allow copying. That's all there
is to it. So think about what that
means. The more sites you build, the
more templates you can offer. And the
more templates you offer, the more
chances you have of earning that
commission completely passively while
you sleep. So your projects don't just
sit there. They can become templates
that bring in users and generate passive
income for you. build once, let others
remix it, and get paid when they launch.
And the more you build, the more that
potential compounds. So now, let's talk
about how to make sure the sites you
build actually get found on Google. Now,
what I'm about to show you is actually
crucial for your success and something
that a lot of videos completely
overlook. And honestly, this is the part
that determines whether your site earns
money or just sits there doing nothing.
>> Do nothing. I'm going to give you a
little known method for choosing what
web app to build that removes all the
headache and allows you to make a
confident choice that gives you the best
chance to get off to a flying start.
>> Flying still flying.
>> First off, let's be clear about what we
want. We do want to find something that
a lot of people are searching for, but
we don't want too much competition from
other sites that Google already trusts.
And this is traditionally done by doing
keyword research, looking at the
popularity and competition for a given
topic with the aim of finding something
popular but easy to rank for. But
really, the best way to know that a
topic is easy to rank for is to look at
Google itself. Because when the first
page of Google has new sites on it, it
usually means the older trusted sites
aren't fully answering the search query.
So, Google is still looking for better
results. Now, you might be wondering,
how do you actually find those
opportunities without spending hours
trolling through Google results? Well,
you can't just endlessly search random
Google results because you'd be
searching for the proverbial needle in a
haststack. And on the other hand,
there's no tool in existence that will
spit out a guaranteed money-making niche
at the push of a button. The reality is
somewhere in the middle ground. We start
with one broad idea, then use a research
tool to help us find opportunities
within it. There are a lot of keyword
tools out there and the most popular
ones are pretty pricey, but the most
helpful ones don't just give you piles
of data. They actually tell you which
queries Google is serving new sites for,
saving you endless hours of trolling.
So, let's run through this step by step.
We start with a seed keyword, something
like time calculator, PDF. I'm going to
try generator. My preferred tool for
this is clearer. Enter the seed keyword.
Set it to only show easy keywords with a
maximum difficulty of 10 out of 100.
Then hit research. We'll get this list
of keywords all related to generator.
Now sort the list by difficulty so the
easiest are shown first. Then go through
the list and check any that look like
they could be answered by a web app like
this one here. Phone number generator.
And now for the crucial step. We ask it
to analyze all the Google search results
pages for the queries we selected and to
tell us if it finds any new sites
included in the results. And here's what
we get back. The numbers in the circles
are trustworthiness scores from 0 to
100. And ones highlighted in blue have
very low trustworthiness, which is
almost always because they're new. And
without scrolling down, we already see
three queries with new sites ranking on
the first page of Google. So, what this
is actually telling you is that Google
thinks this new site is answering the
query better than more established and
trusted sites, which means there's a gap
and you can potentially fill it. In a
nutshell, a random phone number
generator and a dragon born name
generator should rank quickly and they
both have a decent volume of monthly
searches. Any questions about this or if
you want me to do another video just on
this, please leave me a comment below.
Right, before we wrap up, I want to zoom
out for a second because I think it's
important you understand what we've
actually built here today. Because this
isn't just a word on Scrambler, it's a
digital asset. 6 months ago, building
something like this meant either
learning to code, which takes months, or
hiring a developer for a few thousand.
For most people, that door was simply
closed.
Now, you just did it in minutes. And
these tools don't expire. A calculator
you build today can still be earning in
2030 with zero maintenance. And
remember, the best strategy is a
compound strategy. One tool might earn
$20 a month. Another might earn 500,
another 5,000. So don't give yourself
the pressure of aiming for a mega
successful site on your first build.
Don't build one tool. Build a portfolio
of sites or a handful of related tools
on one site, each pulling in its own
traffic, each showing ads. because even
modest earnings stack up fast. Five
tools earning $200 each is $1,000 a
month already. Add one that breaks
through and you're looking at
life-changing income from sites you
built in an afternoon. Now, I think it's
important to bear in mind that only a
small percentage of people know about
this business model. And an even smaller
percentage of that percentage will
actually take action on it and an even
smaller percentage will stick at it if
the first project fails. So, I challenge
you to be one of the few who do profit
from this once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity. And you can be sure of one
thing. The only guarantee of failure is
not trying. The model is proven, the
demand is evergreen, and the barrier to
entry has never been lower. Your first
digital asset is one Horizon session
away. I really hope that was useful to
you. And if you'd like to see more
videos of me building stuff with
Hostinger Horizons, let me know in the
comments below. Don't forget to download
the show notes to this video using the
link in the description below. Thanks
for watching and consider subscribing.
I'll see you in the next one.